---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## What Open Source Means to Me

Open source, in my opinion, stands in direct opposition to capital and what tech giants like "Open" AI are furthering. Open source projects allow information to be available to all, instead of privatized to further the profits of tech billionaires. Focusing on open source is essential in a time where privatization of information and public data for the sake of capital is increasing with each year (though there are many exceptions i.e. Wikipedia). I've always been interested in open source, and I hope that I will be able to make some contributions to my favorite open source project, LUTE, during this class. 

## Open Source Projects I Use

### React
I've used React for a few projects for school/myself and find its ease of use and ability to create components extremely useful for smaller projects. 

### VSCode
I have been using VSCode as my daily editor for the past 3 years for every language execept Java. The ability to add extensions (which can also be open source) make it a very versatile editor, and my favorite to use so far.
### LUTE
LUTE - learning using texts - is an open source reading platform for langauge learning. It allows users to slowly create a personal dictionary for each language they want to learn and highlights words that have not been seen before in texts uploaded to the platform. I have used it daily for the past year to learn french. Many other platforms like LUTE (basically all of them) are paid or free to use but with heavy restrictions. 
